(Finally, we will turn to the literature on narrative. Narration is a way of engaging in learning; narrations also serve as proof that one has learned. We will look at the role of narration in the context of a community of practice, and discuss what it might mean to take a poststructural/postmodern perspective on it.)

Faculty as narrators
-----------------------

(What is a narrative?)

Narratives give us both a method and methodology for understanding faculty as learners. Namely, we can frame them as narrators. Glesne speaks of the writer/narrator role as threefold: (1) artist, (2) translator/interpreter, and (3) transformer (Glesne, 2011, p. 219). The role of narrator can be a high-agency role, with narrators deciding how to create (as artists) a story-telling moment and how to translate it for their audience in order to elicit the desired reaction/transformation. Agency is heightened even more when the narratives are about one's own past. Autobiographical narrators paint themselves as characters in their own stories, drawing from their prior experiences and using their agency in the present to articulate their agency in the past. This "intentional state entailment" is a key feature of narratives; without characters with agency who make choices, we cannot have narratives at all (Bruner, 1991, p. 7).

### Narrating is a way of thinking and making-sense of the world

In terms of methodology, narrative work usually falls within the intepretivist paradigm, where the purpose of research is to seek understanding, as opposed to creating predictions or causing emancipation (Glesne, 2011, p. 7). We turn information into narratives as a way of making sense of the world. Bruner's landmark 1991 paper, "The Narrative Construction of Reality," removes the boundaries between the mental process of thought and the discourse of its expression as a narrative. The narrative is not sitting precomposed in some idealized platonic space, waiting to be spoken or written by an unthinking scribe. Rather, narrative "operates as an instrument of mind in the construction of reality." (p. 6)

### Narratives have a particular type of truth to them

Looking at the world through a narrative paradigm also requires that we examine our epistemological assumptions about the nature of "knowledge" and "truth." We distinugish between the "constructions generated by logical and scientific procedures that can be weeded out by falsification" and the "version of reality whose acceptability is governed by convention and 'narrative necessity' rather than by empirical verification and logical requiredness" (Bruner, 1991, p. 4-5). The first is called "forensic truth," the second one "narrative truth," a distinction made by the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission (1998) to recognize that personal recollections of intense memories are not rendered invalid by a lack or confusion of precise dates, quotes, or other “facts.” As a knowledge-seeking methodology, narrative does not seek forensic truth; rather, it seeks verisimilitude, the possibility or resemblance of forensic truth and the truth of personal recollection and memory.

### Narratives can't simply be chopped up for analysis

Bruner also discussed the "part-whole textual interdependence" of narrative (Bruner, 1991, p. 6). Stories have a beginning, a middle, and an end. Characters grow, decisions are made, and the story unfurls itself in time. We cannot change the order a story is told in without changing the story itself. A narrative cannot be counted or chopped into parts for neat analysis; it must be treated and analyzed as a story. Bruner's great insight was drawing on traditions of literary analysis to look at the stories that real ordinary people told about their lives.

### Narratives are hermeneutic

Coming from this intensely personal perspective, narratives become boundary objects and mediated dialogues between an author (speaker) and a reader (listener), with both parties taking a highly active role in the process. In Bruner's words, narratives have "hermeneutic composability," meaning that they are things through which people express and extract meaning, but there is no single absolute meaning that can simply be dissected. Two people reading the same book can come out with very different insights. The interpretation being made depends on the background knowledge and intention of both author and reader, as well as what the author and reader know about each other. (Bruner, 1991, p. 7-11) However, the information dissemination model of learning does not account for this hermeneutical interaction.

This hermeneutic composability leads to an expanded perspective on the part of both author and reader. Bruner writes about how narratives have context sensitivity and negotiability. By seeing that we and others may have different contexts, we are able to accept these differences. We recognize that we can immerse ourselves, like anthropologists, into someone else's process for constructing meaning (p. 16-18). Belenky describes the process from the perspective of a constructivist, where participants engage in "...becoming and staying aware of the workings of their minds... \[seeking] to stretch the outer boundaries of their consciousness — by making the unconscious conscious, by consulting and listening to the self, by voicing the unsaid, by listening to others and staying alert to all the currents and undercurrents of life about them, by imagining themselves inside the new poem or person or idea that they want to come to know and understand" (Belenky, 1997, p. 141).


### Narratives of faculty are already used in engineering education research

The use of narrative methodology in engineering education research is not new, and has already been interwoven into CoP theory in that domain. A 2007 paper titled “Storytelling in Engineering Education” highlights the importance of personal narratives as ways to express community values by “\[providing] a vehicle for scholarly discourse that makes explicit our implicit knowledge, promotes reflective practice, and provides entry points into a community of practice” (Adams et al., 2007, p. 4-5). Case and Light list “narrative analysis” in their 2011 Journal of Engineering Education paper “Emerging methodologies in engineering education research,” as does the Cambridge Handbook of Engineering Education Research (Johri & Olds, 2014) and Nancy Chism’s booklet Qualitative Research Basics: A Guide for Engineering Educators circulated by the Rigorous Research in Engineering Education (RREE) group (2010). 

Narrative has been used specifically for research on faculty within engineering education: Pawley’s 2009 paper “Universalized Narratives: Patterns in How Faculty Members Define “Engineering” (2009) and Fincher and Tenenberg’s Disciplinary Commons project which seeks to “\[move] narrative from its naturalistic role in teacher conversation to a more purposeful investigation” (Fincher 2012, p. 28) are both examples in this area.

### Narratives are communal

Narrative hermeneutics do not just expand perspectives within the author-to-reader connection. In fact, Bruner specifically depicts narratives as communal. Human societies pull multiple narratives into a larger assemblage of many narratives, a "narrative accrual" we share with others of our culture (Bruner, 1991, p. 18-20). The history of a country, the "foundational" papers of an academic discipline, and the dinner-table stories that "everyone in the family knows" are all examples of narrative accruals. These narrative accruals are important enough that we legislate that children to learn national and world history in school, require graduate students to focus their first few years on reading a common core of "foundational" works, and make sure that prospective sons- or daughters-in-law learn certain family stories and traditions when they come to visit. Communities of practice and their narrative accruals therefore co-construct each other.

Learning the stories of one's community by becoming a fluent reader of this narrative accrual is a key part of enculturating into a community of practice. Without a common language, we are unable to communicate. In the Star Trek Episode "Darmok" (CITATION), Picard encounters a culture that only speaks by uttering story titles, and is unable to communicate with them because he does not know the stories they are referencing. For instance, in American English, we might refer to "the ant and the grasshopper" as a way of referencing Aesop's fable on industriousness and advance preparation, but someone who grew up without those childhood stories might not understand what two insects have to do with being prepared. Similarly, researchers refer to common theories to get their ideas across, and the listener is expected to understand the meaning underlying brief evocations of a famous theoriist's name. 

By invoking Wenger & Lave's communities of practice theory in the preceding section, and Bruner's narrative analysis work here, I draw my research into a web of ideas others have already thought and written about. Practitioners tell each other stories about their work all the time; telling the "right" kinds of stories about the "right" kinds of things (for instance, in a literature review) is a mark of belonging in its own right. "For newcomers," say Lave and Wenger, "the purpose is not to learn from talk as a substitute for legitimate peripheral participation; it is to learn to talk as a key to legitimate peripheral participation" (1991, p. 109).

Learning by narrating and learning within narratives
-----------------------------------------------------

(How are narratives and learning related? Specifically, how do narratives help us understand learning, and how do they show us learning?)

A poststructural view of narrative
------------------------------------

(What do our poststructural tools do to narrative? How will we be employing each poststructural tool in order to understand faculty narratives in a different light (compared to what?))

### Narrative access must be writerly, not just readerly

It is not enough to become a passive reader of our narrative accruals; a full community member must contribute to the joint process of creating the collective story pool. "Our individual autobiographies... depend on being placed within a continuity provided by a constructed and shared social history in which we locate our Selves and individual continuities. It is a sense of belonging to this canonical past that permits us to form our own narratives of deviation while maintaining complicity with the canon" (Bruner, 1991, p. 20). As we place and shape our own narratives within the narrative accrual of our community, we place and shape ourselves within and in relationship to our community. In the "Darmok" episode of Star Trek, Picard finally achieves contact with the alien race when he turns his adventure with their captain into a story that is adopted by that culture's narrative accrual: "Picard and Dathon at El-Adrel." This becomes his entry point into their language -- and by extension, their culture's link to the entire Federation.

Just as communities of practice overlap and bridge across each other, so do narrative accruals. A Japanese child my age may have shared my weekly viewing of the Pokemon TV show, but she may have watched the Japanese show Sailor Moon immediately afterwards, whereas I turned off the TV and read American novelists like Mark Twain. These overlaps can and do often interact to cause interesting shifts and merges in the "libraries" of individuals, and eventually in the narrative accruals of a broader culture itself. For instance, two college roommates may talk about their favorite band, then one may introduce the other to a new musician: "If you like Sara Bareilles, you should listen to Vienna Teng." Eventually, if enough people in their social group come to enjoy Vienna Teng, that musician's albums enter their narrative accrual and become a source of lyrics to be quoted, songs to be sung on road trips, and so forth. Similarly, a researcher may start writing from what she thinks will be common ground with her readership and then branch out into what's likely to be less familiar territory.

### Narratives are no longer about convergence on "truth"

Poststructuralism does not reject narratives; rather, it embraces them as texts in different ways. The emphasis on narrative agency and the use of personal history still makes narrative valuable as a tool for exploring the idea of faculty-as-learners. However, we no longer see these narratives or the process of creating them as positivist “mirrors” reflecting the “true” world. We do not even see them as constructivist “lamps” from within the narrator’s mind radiating light on their personal perceptions of “truth” (Abrams, 1953). 

Poststructural narratives aren't about the convergence of "truth" or even the attempt to create what Wikipedia calls a "neutral point of view" (CITATION), which is the metanarrative that says "there are many possible narratives for this space, and we have listed them below in an objective and reasonably complete fashion." "Neutral point of view" assumes a stable external point of reference by which “truth” can be calibrated and correlated. It implies a stance of having stepped outside of subjectivity -- "each of the people in their own little stories there can only see so much of the world, but I, compiling all these perspectives, can clearly see them all; my perspective is uniquely unmarked by subjectivity." 

### Narratives only have meaning in context

Instead, the poststructuralist view of narrative (and all other) texts is that they are collections of signs that “do not embody specific meanings or concepts” and only “ become meaningful when they are decoded according to cultural conventions.” (Cavallaro, 2001, p. 15-16). (POSSIBLY EXPAND DISCUSSION TO COVER ACADEMIC CULTURE, AS EXPLAINED EARLIER?)

There is no perspective and no statement that goes unmarked by subjectivity. Even ordinary language is full of rhetoric and marked by the slippage of meaning (Derrida, 1998). For instance, we tell students to “take a course” that will “move them closer to graduation,” but do not literally mean that a “course” is something to physically take hold of, or that it will bodily convey them to a physical location of “graduation.”

### Narratives must interrupt themselves for reflection

A poststructuralist approach to faculty narratives is one that frequently interrupts itself to examine itself, and thus expects the role of faculty-as-learner to include a high degree of reflection-in-action (Schön, 1983). This has direct methodological implications. Interactions that might be considered "out of bounds" for a "neutral" interviewer/interviewee setup, such as probes that admit interviewer experiences and opinions, are now not only allowed, but explicitly required.


Critiquing metanarratives in academia
--------------------------------------------

(Do I need to set up the academic context first so we know where these metanarratives come from, perhaps putting the context part before the poststructural and narrative sections?)

The culture of college and university faculty, like all cultures, has metanarratives; they are convenient shorthands used to align activity and thought. Grand, sweeping metanarratives of continuous improvement hold out a tempting promise of certainty in a better future. Common academic metanarratives include:

(LIST OF COMMON ACADEMIC METANARRATIVES, WITH CITATIONS)

* if everybody goes to college, our country would be great!
* if all professors taught with hands-on projects rather than lectures, college teaching would be excellent!

Postmodernism exemplifies an “incredulity towards metanarratives” (Lyotard, 1984, p. xxiv), arguing against totality and for a multiplicity of competing ideas that do not layer neatly atop each other.
This is a view consonant with statements by scholars on the importance of academic freedom and intellectual dissent. (CITATION) Humboldt said (QUOTE BY HUMBOLDT ON ACADEMIC FREEDOM) and Boyer said (QUOTE BY BOYER ON ACADEMIC FREEDOM). More recently, (MODERN QUOTES ON ACADEMIC FREEDOM AND INTELLECTUAL DISSENT.)

Lyotard’s argument against totality and for multiplicity is a binary (X vs. Y), which is itself rejected by poststructuralism in a tongue-in-cheek binary opposition. Just as postmodernism helps us understand faculty-as-learners by rejecting the modernist notion of a metanarrative of “truth” that they must live within, poststructuralism helps us understand faculty-as-learners by rejecting the “structuralist dream of producing scientific accounts of culture by discovering its underlying sign systems” (Cavallaro, 2001, p. 25), or the objectivism-tinged idea that we can find or co-construct the way things “really work.”

Writerly access to narrative accruals
------------------------------------------

Jerome Bruner assserted that all narratives are hermeneutically composed (1991, p. 7). This statement from the narrative perspective has a poststructuralist parallel: “All texts are writerly.” 

The forgetting-of-agency has an unfortunate effect on narrative accruals, the collection of stories that a community shares. If a practitioner is only exposed to readerly texts in their field, they are likely to view their field in a readerly way. However, a practitioner cannot co-author a community’s narrative accrual without first viewing the texts as writerly, and that sort of co-authorship is a key part of becoming a full member of a community of practice. Likewise, placing one’s own personal narrative within the narrative accrual of one’s field is a highly writerly act that helps both with sense-making of identity at a personal level and cultural transformation at the community level. It’s the difference between passively watching a professional basketball game and going home thinking “I’ll never be that good, so why try?” and being inspired by the same game to get out there and play basketball with your friends so that you all improve your game. By making-visible the underlying writerly nature of texts, faculty-as-learners become conscious of how they are already crafting the narratives of their teaching identities. More importantly, they are viewed as learners who recognize and actualize their agency to analyze and edit and shape not only their own stories, but each other’s.

Faculty learners as poststructural narrators
----------------------------------------------

Having introduced the ideas of “readers as texts” and “texts as readers,” we can now describe faculty as learners who simultaneously negotiate both roles. From this perspective, faculty-as-learners can be seen as readers/texts that constantly and mutually re-author and re-present each other, themselves, and the narrative accruals of their communities. This is a high-agency role that requires the faculty narrator/apprentice to draw extensively on both their present context and their past history in order to expose and work within a writerly world. It is a stark contrast to the “information dissemination” view of faculty-as-learners as mere recipients and measurable end-objects in someone else’s project.

“Mutually re-authoring and re-presenting” may sound like a more complicated version of the phrase “they co-construct each other,” and, in a sense, it is. However, the sign “co-construction” usually signifies an attempt to converge, even temporarily, on a single viewpoint. Even statements of the type that “there are many viewpoints; historically, some people have viewed this as X, others as Y, and yet others as Z” is itself based on a single viewpoint that is known on Wikipedia as neutral point of view (NPOV). Its rhetoric of claiming to represent "fairly, proportionately, and, as far as possible, without bias, all of the significant views that have been published by reliable sources on a topic,” mirrors a certain unspoken ideology of what qualifies as a “significant view” or “reliable source” (Wikipedia, 2014). In contrast, the poststructural viewpoint casts faculty narrator/apprentices and their narratives as “polyphonic texts that challenge dominant ideologies by articulating diverse discourses… thus resisting the notion of a unified viewpoint” (Cavallaro, 2001, p. 19).

The resulting accrual of both narrations and narrators also displays intertextuality, the idea that texts “always absorb and transform other texts” and “can be thought of as a tapestry of quotations, a mosaic of allusions” (p. 60). One famous example of intertextuality in action is T.S. Eliot’s poem “The Waste Land” (Eliot, 2000), which consists largely of allusions to other literary works. Another example of intertextuality is a scholarly document such as this one. When I quote Cavallaro as saying that “if texts are intertextual, subjective responses to texts are intersubjective,” I use her signifier of “intersubjectivity” in order to contextualize my thoughts (1991, p. 60).

Since the sign “intersubjectivity” is likely to be unfamiliar to many of my readers, I must employ repetition to re-present the concept in greater detail so that my readers are able to make sense of the new word. Intersubjectivity refers to the interactions between interpretations proposed by multiple people. Intertextuality is about the interweaving of texts in the same way intersubjectivity is about the interweaving of interpretations. For instance, a conversation between faculty members reflecting on a shared experience is intersubjective; although their interpretations of the experience may not ultimately converge, their interpretations will interact and change during the course of the discussion. To draw an even more specific example, the responses of a committee to a dissertation proposal are intersubjective. Each committee member reading the proposal goes through the process of interpreting the document for themselves, but their interpretation interacts with the interpretations of the other committee members and the graduate student author. The interaction of these interpretations takes place within the conventions of a particular community of practice — in this case, the community of engineering education researchers. Based on these culturally-shaped interactions, the interpretations of particular community members may be accepted or rejected.

By defining intersubjectivity, I am engaging in a reflexive interruption and deconstruction of my own text, revealing my own authorship, and encouraging the reader (you!) to see this document as a writerly text to freely interpret and make sense of. None of the ideas introduced in this section of the document are particularly new; what I’m trying to do is to give you a language you can use to discuss and become more aware of how these dynamics already play out in the lives of faculty. All the same, the process of acquiring poststructural language is often an uncomfortable process for the reader, who may not be used to authors breaking the fourth wall. For this discomfort, I apologize. However, this boundary-blurring is typical of the poststructural approach of “deni\[ying]… the solace of good forms” (Lyotard, 1984, p. 81) in order to get readers to examine their expectations of how texts ought to perform.
